Add section "Getting started with CAN, CAN FD and CAN XL" (#89)
modelica/fmi-guides: ls-bus-guide/4____network_abstraction.adoc

            /* Set an indicator that clock ticked and new Bus Operations arrived */
            RxClock = values[i]; // <2>
        }
    }
    ...
}

fmi3Status fmi3SetBinary(fmi3Instance instance,
                          const fmi3ValueReference valueReferences[], 
                          size_t nValueReferences, 
                          const size_t valueSize, 
                          const fmi3Binary value, ...) {
    ...
    for (size_t i = 0; i < nValueReferences; i++) {
        if (valueReferences[i] == RX_DATA_REFERENCE) {    
            FMI3_LS_BUS_BUFFER_WRITE(&RxBufferInfoCan, value[i], valueSize[i]); // <3>
        }
    }
    ...
}
----
<1> Verify that `Rx_Clock` ticked.
<2> Park information for global access within other FMI interface functions.
<3> Building a `fmi3LsBusUtilBufferInfo` instance basing on received Bus Operations.

[NOTE]
.Summary
====
* The LS-BUS API provides macros to write received binary data into a given buffer
* The buffer is updated by the `FMI3_LS_BUS_BUFFER_WRITE` macro
* The `FMI3_LS_BUS_BUFFER_WRITE` can be called repeatedly
====

===== Processing of Bus Operations
The Bus Operations must now be processed on the receiving side.

> A suitable place for implementation represents `fmi3UpdateDiscreteStates`.

Author: @msuevern I added the requested note. Thanks for pointing that out!

The following program code shows how to first define the payload and the ID that should be used in the CAN Transmit operation.
Afterwards, the `fmi3LsBusUtilBufferInfo` is reset by using `FMI3_LS_BUS_BUFFER_RESET`.
`FMI3_LS_BUS_BUFFER_RESET` sets the internal position of the `fmi3LsBusUtilBufferInfo` instance to zero, so that it is essentially emptied and written from the beginning.
The whole thing is necessary to ensure that Bus Operations that have already been transmitted are not transmitted a second time.
`FMI3_LS_BUS_CAN_CREATE_OP_CAN_TRANSMIT` now creates a new CAN Transmit operation with the associated parameters such as CAN ID and payload and adds them directly to the `fmi3LsBusUtilBufferInfo` instance.
Querying the status of a `fmi3LsBusUtilBufferInfo` instance allows you to check whether there is still enough space in the underlying buffer.
In the last step, `FMI3_LS_BUS_BUFFER_INFO_LENGTH` is used to check whether there are Bus Operations in the respective `fmi3LsBusUtilBufferInfo` variable that should be transmitted in `Event Mode`.

[source,c]
.Creation of a CAN Transmit operation
----

> #include "mi3LsBusUtilCan.h" 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#include "Fmi3LsBusUtilCan.h" 
```

fmi3Status fmi3DoStep(..., eventHandlingNeeded, ...) { 
    fmi3UInt8 msg[] = "Hey guys";   // <1>
    fmi3LsBusCanId msgId = 42;      // <2>

    /* Reset read/write positions of the BufferInfo variable */
    FMI3_LS_BUS_BUFFER_RESET(&TxBufferInfoCan);    // <3>

    /* Create a CAN Transmit operation to be send */
    FMI3_LS_BUS_CAN_CREATE_OP_CAN_TRANSMIT(&TxBufferInfoCan, msgId, <options>, sizeof(msg), msg);    // <4>

    if(!TxBufferInfoCan.status){   // <5>
        /* Error: No free buffer space available */
    }

    ...

    if(FMI3_LS_BUS_BUFFER_INFO_LENGTH(&TxBufferInfoCan) > 0){
        *eventHandlingNeeded = fmi3True;    // <6>
    }
}
----
<1> Creation of CAN frame payload.
<2> Definition of CAN ID of the specified frame.
<3> Resetting of `fmi3LsBusUtilBufferInfo` variable instance.
<4> Creation of a CAN Transmit operation and adding it to the specified `fmi3LsBusUtilBufferInfo` variable.
<5> Verify that free buffer space is available.
<6> Activate `Event Mode` if needed.

> According to exactly the same principle, any specified operation can be created using an existing macro.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
According to the same principles, any specified operation can be created using the corresponding macro.
```
Der Satz liest sich etwas merkwürdig.

[NOTE]
.Summary
====
* Bus Operations can be created by using the provided FMI3_LS_BUS_<BusType>_CREATE_OP_<OperationName> macros
* The CREATE_OP macros are creating a Bus Operation and updating the given buffer in a single step
====

===== Transmit of Bus Operations
Within the layered standard, the https://modelica.github.io/fmi-ls-bus/main/#low-cut-variables[connection] between the data to be exchanged (`TX_Data` and `Rx_Data`) and the time of exchange 
(`Tx_Clock` and `Rx_Clock`) has been well defined.
The https://modelica.github.io/fmi-ls-bus/main/#low-cut-tx-triggered-clock-variables[simplest case represents] a `triggered` clock as `Tx_Clock` that basically allows to signal events when returning from `fmi3DoStep`.

The program code below schematically illustrates an implementation.

> `fmi3GetClock` is called by the FMU importer after `fmi3DoStep` has completed or ended prematurely.

Reviewer: I think we should mention here that the importer transitions into event mode using fmi3EnterEventMode first.

Within `fmi3GetClock`, `TX_CLOCK_REFERENCE` represents the valueReference of the respective `Tx_Clock`.
The usage of the macro `FMI3_LS_BUS_BUFFER_IS_EMPTY` indicates whether there is data to be transferred in the respective buffer.

> If this is the case, the corresponding `Tx_Clock` will tick.

Reviewer: Note that in theory, the fmi3GetClock may only return true here once per clock activation.

            *values[i] = FMI3_LS_BUS_BUFFER_START(&TxBufferInfoCan);        // <3>
            *valueSizes[i] = FMI3_LS_BUS_BUFFER_LENGTH(&TxBufferInfoCan);   // <4>
        }
    }
    ...
}
----
<1> Verify if Bus Operations exists for transfer.
<2> Activate specified `Tx_Clock`.
<3> Get the start memory address of the buffer, by using `fmi3LsBusUtilBufferInfo` instance.
<4> Get the size of the buffer, by using `fmi3LsBusUtilBufferInfo` instance.

It should be clear that, depending on the application, the different FMI clock types each offer advantages and disadvantages. See also the https://modelica.github.io/fmi-ls-bus/main/#low-cut-selecting-tx-variables[corresponding chapter in the layered standard].

[NOTE]
.Summary
====
* The LS-BUS C API provides macros to get the START address and LENGTH of the buffer which can be used in the context of `fmi3GetClock` and `fmi3GetBinary`
====

===== Receive of Bus Operations
The indication whether new operations are pending within the `Rx_Data` variable is done via the `Rx_Clock`.
This clock ticks as soon as new data is available.
The operation-receiving FMU gets the Bus Operations via a `fmi3Binary` variable.

> This variable can be transformed back into a `fmi3LsBusUtilBufferInfo` instance.
> With the help of this transformation, the Bus Operations to be processed can be easily accessed.
> `FMI3_LS_BUS_BUFFER_WRITE` can be used for transformation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The contents of this variable may then be copied into a buffer described by an `fmi3LsBusUtilBufferInfo` instance using `FMI3_LS_BUS_BUFFER_WRITE`.
```

After this they can be handled.

[source,c]
.Processing received Bus Operations.
----
fmi3Status fmi3UpdateDiscreteStates(...)
{
    fmi3LsBusOperationHeader* hdr;
    ...
    if (fmi3ClockActive == RxClock) {
        /* Processing of received Bus Operations */
        while (FMI3_LS_BUS_READ_NEXT_OPERATION(&RxBufferInfoCan, hdr))    // <1>
        {
            switch (hdr->type)                                            // <2>
            {
                case FMI3_LS_BUS_CAN_OP_CAN_TRANSMIT:
                    fmi3LsBusCanOperationCanTransmit receivedTransmitOp   // <3>
                        = (fmi3LsBusCanOperationCanTransmit*) hdr;
            ...
            }
        }
        
        /* Reset clock */
        RxClock = fmi3ClockInactive;

        /* Reset read/write positions */
        FMI3_LS_BUS_BUFFER_INFO_RESET(&RxBufferInfoCan);
    }
    ...
}

----
<1> Reading the next operation from the `fmi3LsBusUtilBufferInfo` instance.
<2> Decide which kind of operation needs to be handled.
<3> Casting into the concrete operation underlying structure.

> Please note that using `fmi3UpdateDiscreteStates` requires that the capability flag `providesEvaluateDiscreteStates = "true"` be set within the `modelDescription.xml`.

Reviewer: The capability flag `providesEvaluateDiscreteStates` should only affect the function `fmi3EvaluateDiscreteStates` (see [2.4.2. Attributes and Capability Flags](https://fmi-standard.org/docs/3.0.1/#common-capability-flags)). `fmi3UpdateDiscreteStates` should always be provided by an FMU supporting the event mode.
